URL: https://groups.google.com./g/genepattern-help/c/A4HK93VLLgI
Title: FINAL UPDATE - Module repository functionality has been restored! Open for configuration details
----------------------------------------





FINAL UPDATE - Module repository functionality has been restored! Open for configuration details
68 views
Skip to first unread message

Barbara Hill
unread,
Jul 19, 2019, 7:37:38 AM



to genepatt...@googlegroups.com
As mentioned in a previous post, we are working to restore the module repository functionality after some unplanned system maintenance.


As of today, we have restored the following:
The ability to browse modules on genepattern.org
The ability to download modules from gparc.org
The ability to install modules on your GenePattern server
to do so, follow the instructions in our blog post.


A redirect* is also in place from the old URL, and a new version of GenePattern with all of the above changes, plus additional changes to remove all old urls will be made available later this summer.


*The redirect will not work for the install from repository page, so you will need to follow the instructions above to correctly configure that page.
Please contact us if you are having any trouble obtaining a module you wish to install.


With thanks for your patience and understanding,


-The GenePattern Team
朱红波
unread,
Oct 1, 2019, 3:13:14 AM



to GenePattern Help Forum
Dear Barbara Hill,
   I’m a new learner of this platform. And I am trying to use the platform in the R environment and want to install the R version of GenePattern in the R-Studio. As illustrated in the documentation of Programmers Guide, I should download the R package to my computer, which is run with Windows 10. There is no R package of GenePattern in the module of Download. So I wonder to know how to find the R package and install it.

  Besides, could you please configure my user account to run a longer time not a default limit of 1 day. Because the run time exceeds 1 day when I run my dataset in the cloud of GenePattern client and encounter the same problem with Shion Zhang. My account name is zhuxiaoer. Best wishes.




Barbara Hill
unread,
Jan 13, 2020, 9:40:17 AM



to GenePattern Help Forum
Hello, 


I'm sorry no one has responded to you sooner!


Do you still have questions about using R in GenePattern? or still need your run time configured? If so, please start a new thread with your questions.


Apologies again for the delay in responding.
-Barbara

Reply all

Reply to author

Forward