URL: https://groups.google.com./g/genepattern-help/c/EtDfgWOX1Io
Title: Is possible to analyze OncoScan CNV FFPE .cel files with GenePattern?
----------------------------------------





Is possible to analyze OncoScan CNV FFPE .cel files with GenePattern?
37 views
Skip to first unread message

Joan Gibert Fernandez
unread,
Aug 21, 2018, 5:52:51 AM



to GenePattern Help Forum
Hi,

I am working with OncoScan data from lung cancer patients (no normal tissue paired samples). I would like to analyze the CNV and LOH from this samples using GenePattern but I'm not sure that I could use it.

I'm browsing around the web-based GenePattern and SNPFileCreator seems to only allow four types of affymetrix arrays (50K Hind, 50K Xba, 250K Sty, 250K NSP). I couldn't find any place where this codification was specified in the OncoScan documentation. Any idea if this samples correspond to any of this options?

Thanks!



Barbara Hill
unread,
Aug 27, 2018, 1:55:53 PM



to GenePattern Help Forum
Hello, 


We do not have experience with OncoScan data on this team, but I can pass along some information from our old email help which may be of use:


Begin Thread:


Dear GenePattern team,

I am trying to run ABSOLUTE using Oncoscan data. It works for some samples, for others the expected copy number ratio is too high:

[1] "Capping 0 segs at tCR = 5.0"
[1] "Expected copy-ratio = 1.37009"

It would seem that in those cases the mean segment values are centered around 1, instead of 0. Possibly because the ploidy is 3 instead of 2. If I center the segment values around zero by subtracting the mean of the segment values there is no problem.

Is one supposed to center the mean segment values around 0 when using Oncoscan data?

Should I run ABSOLUTE specifying the platform to be SNP_6.0?

Do you recommend against using Oncoscan data for Absolute?

I ran into the same problem using SNP6 data recently. In this case I just changed the expected copy-ratio threshold in the code, because it was a bit more tricky to center the mean segment values. I'm sure the expected copy-ratio threshold is there for a reason, so I was just wondering what one recommends to do in this case.



-------------------------


The following information is from a previous help ticket: 'The expected
copy-ratio should be very close to 1.0 if the input data were properly
prepared. ABSOLUTE is hard-wired to fail if it is < 0.75 or > 1.25. Your output
shows a level which they say is "unbiologically high" and "well beyond where
SNP6 would saturate".'

Based on the last comment, I would infer that this is the linear range for SNP6
and beyond this the signal is saturated and not useful.



----------------------


Thank you for your response. That clarifies my question partially. I'm not
very familiar with SNP6 data, but from my brief experience it would seem
that some algorithms, such as the one from Oncoscan, translate the signal
when it believes the genome is not diploid. In that case it makes sense to
center the signal around zero again so ABSOLUTE can handle the data. Not
sure if there is a difference in that case if one changes the 1.25 copy
ratio threshold or centers the signal. For HAPSEG I am uncertain whether
the raw SNP6 signal is changed in some way that would give ABSOLUTE the
impression the signal is saturated even though it is not. Are there any
recommended ways to check for SNP6 saturation?



-------------------------------------


I passed on your original and updated questions to the CGA group and here
is a summary of the reply:

   - They have no experience working with Oncoscan arrays.
   - Still waiting to hear back about your question around the capping
   output.
   - They'd like to emphasize that ABSOLUTE provides models for which the
   highest scoring model is not always the best solution. For each profile,
   solutions have to be manually reviewed in order to choose which
   purity/ploidy model makes the most sense for a given tumor. To this end,
   the CGA group holds training sessions to teach people how to review data.
   - If you send your outputs to the CGA group (either to
   absolute-help@broadinstitute.org, posted to their forum
   <http://www.broadinstitute.org/cancer/cga/cga_forums>, or post here and
   I can send along your data), they can look it over to help you pick the
   correct solution.



----------------------------------------


Thanks a lot for your help! I managed to manually inspect the output and
pick a satisfying solution. Unfortunately since I've been using a new
mutation caller I'll have to rerun ABSOLUTE and pick the best solutions.
I'll try to use the forum this time and will let you know when I sent it.



---------------------------------------------


(*Content was anonymized as it came from an old private email forum)

Reply all

Reply to author

Forward