URL: https://groups.google.com./g/genepattern-help/c/luWebbkqSoo
Title: Enquiries regarding S.pombe database used for GSEA analysis
----------------------------------------





Enquiries regarding S.pombe database used for GSEA analysis
18 views
Skip to first unread message

Phoebe Chair
unread,
Jul 6, 2021, 12:42:16 AM



to GenePattern Help Forum
Hi, 


I am currently working on a PTMsig/ssGSEA and EGSEA analysis on an S.pombe dataset. After many searches, I can't find any provided public databases required for this analysis. The files needed for the analysis are ptmsig.db and msig.db of the S.pombe species. I was wondering if anyone from this group knows where I could get access to these databases? 


Thanks,
Phoebe




Anthony Castanza
unread,
Jul 8, 2021, 6:22:09 PM



to genepatt...@googlegroups.com
Hi Phoebe,


Unfortunately I don't think we're going to be able to help with this one. MSigDB is primarily a human resource with limited support for model organisms, additionally, the ".db" files are not something provided by us, I think those were created by some 3rd party as a repackaging of our database to facilitate their R implementation of GSEA. Furthermore, ptMSigDB is a 3rd party that we only have a loose relationship with so you'd need to reach out to them directly (https://github.com/broadinstitute/ssGSEA2.0) but I also think they don't really support many model organisms.


That said, if you are able to identify a suitable resource of S. pombe pathways I might be able to help get them into a GSEA-compatible format. Reactome appears to have a collection of S. pombe pathways, if that would help I can create some GMTs from that data next week that might be useful with at least the desktop version of GSEA.






--
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "GenePattern Help Forum" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to genepattern-he...@googlegroups.com.
To view this discussion on the web visit https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/genepattern-help/a3a41301-1386-454c-b384-0c609408b051n%40googlegroups.com.



--

-Anthony


Anthony S. Castanza, PhD
Curator, Molecular Signatures Database
Mesirov Lab, Department of Medicine
University of California, San Diego

Reply all

Reply to author

Forward