URL: https://groups.google.com./g/genepattern-help/c/pVvpxGOkiZU
Title: ssGSEA RNAseq input expression data
----------------------------------------





ssGSEA RNAseq input expression data
1,429 views
Skip to first unread message

jheey1521
unread,
Jan 28, 2021, 9:17:54 PM



to GenePattern Help Forum
I have raw read count values generated by HTSeq-count and normalized counts generated by DESeq2 and FPKM values.
I know that I need an input GCT file containing normalized gene expression data to run ssGSEA.


And I confirmed from the GSEA website that normalized counts generated by DESeq2 can be used as input GCT files for GSEA analysis.


"Tools such as DESeq2 can be made to produce properly normalized data (normalized counts) which are compatible with GSEA"


Then, could the normalized counts created by DESeq2 be used as gene expression data to be put into the input GCT file for ssGSEA analysis?


Thank you in advance.  

Anthony Castanza
unread,
Jan 28, 2021, 10:12:11 PM



to genepatt...@googlegroups.com
Hello,


For ssGSEA we recommend TPM (transcripts per million), or FPKM (fragments per kilobase million). 

Counts or normalized counts are not suitable for ssGSEA as the value is not normalized for the length of the gene. This results in a bias for longer genes that wouldn't be accounted for when computing relative enrichment of gene sets within the single sample.  This doesn't affect standard GSEA as the gene ranking is computed relative to other samples.


-Anthony

Anthony S. Castanza, PhD
Curator, Molecular Signatures Database
Mesirov Lab, Department of Medicine
University of California, San Diego




--
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "GenePattern Help Forum" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to genepattern-he...@googlegroups.com.
To view this discussion on the web visit https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/genepattern-help/7077e8b1-7c1b-4376-b11e-d3c4b6db212bn%40googlegroups.com.


Reply all

Reply to author

Forward